# CS-340-Client-Server

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?**
In terms of this project, the design was broken up into three components: the database layer in mongoDB, the Python middleware layer, and the front end controller designed as a jupyter notebook Dash app. Compartmentalizing each layer and creating them to interface with each other keeps all of the code maintainable, as you can change parts of the middleware to create new functionality for anything you need in the front end, and also abstracts away the rest of the control over the database layer. By designing the CRUD application to custom fit the end user application, your program becomes adaptable and can be tailored to any use case imaginable, while remaining simple to adjust with Python functions.

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist?**
As a computer scientist, I approach a problem by breaking it down into smaller, manageable components and analyzing each part. When evaluating the database and dashboard requirements for Grazioso Salvare, I started by identifying the client's needs and necessary information, and coming up with a framework for a solution. I then looked at the database schema, and figured out what queries would be necessary to show information to the end user. I considered factors like data normalization, indexing, and performance optimization. For the dashboard, I determined the relevant metrics and visualizations to present the data effectively, as described by the stakeholders. This project was somewhat similar to previous assignments as it involved real-world client requirements, but it required additional communication about their needs. In future projects, I would continue to prioritize understanding the client's goals and requirements, collaborate more with stakeholders, and keep applying best practices in database design and development.

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter?**
Computer scientists are able to look at a complex problem, break it down into manageable steps, and tackle each one in an intuitive order, and iteratively with good prioritization skills. Throughout a computer scientists work, they should expect to run into issues, and grow their skills in addressing them in calculated ways. By continuing to gain experience with situations like this, they get a better understanding of what to expect in similar situations, and are able to adapt to changes in requirements and context much like the software they should aim to design.

